1_Salary_Dashboard/README.md, before:

# Data Jobs Salary Dashboard

_Screen recording of dashboard_

## Introduction

### Problem

Job seekers often face uncertainty when evaluating compensation offers, as salary information can be fragmented, outdated, or inconsistent across sources. Without clear insights into market pay ranges, individuals risk accepting positions with inadequate compensation relative to their skills, experience, and industry standards.

To address this challenge, I developed a job salary dashboard to visualize salary data, enabling job seekers to investigate pay trends for specific roles and make informed decisions about their career opportunities.

### Objective

To investigate salary trends of data jobs considering the job location and schedule (e.g. full-time or part-time).

### Dashboard File

The final dashboard is [Data_Jobs_Salary_Dashboard.xlsx](https://github.com/beverly-m/Data-Analytics-Projects/blob/801aa4eb9dc25eeacad28fc974ed44ad4260f0f6/1_Salary_Dashboard/Data_Jobs_Salary_Dashboard.xlsx)

### Dataset

The dataset contains real-world data job information from 2023. The dataset is available via an [Excel for Data Analytics course by Luke Barousse](https://youtu.be/pCJ15nGFgVg?si=qicwLVMJyS4ycjqH).

It includes detailed information on job titles, salaries, locations, skills and posting platforms.

### Tools & Skills

I used the following Excel skills to build the dashboard

- ✅ Data Validation
- 🔢 Formulas & Functions
- 📈 Charts

## Building the Dashboard

### Filtering by job title, country and schedule

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### ✅ Data Validation: Filtered Lists

_Justification_

_Screen recording of lists_

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs by Job Title

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 📈 Bar Chart

_Justification_

_Bar chart image_

#### 🔢 Formula

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
    (jobs[job_title_short] = A2) *
    (jobs[salary_year_avg] <> 0) *
    (jobs[job_country] = job_country) *
    (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
    jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
  )
```

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs by Location

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 📈 Map Chart

_Justification_

_Map chart image_

#### 🔢 Formula

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=A2) *
     (jobs[salary_year_avg]<>0) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=job_title) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs by Schedule

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 📈 Bar Chart

_Justification_

_Bar chart image_

#### 🔢 Formula

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=job_country) *
     (jobs[salary_year_avg]<>0) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=job_title) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(A2,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

### Top Platforms & Posting Volume

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 🔢 Formula: Top Job Platform

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
COUNTIFS(jobs[job_via], A2,
         jobs[job_title_short], job_title,
         jobs[job_country], job_country,
         jobs[job_schedule_type], job_type)
```

#### 🔢 Formula: Job Count

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
COUNT(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=job_country) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=A2) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

## Conclusion

Commit message:

Edit Dashboard README - Charts details

1_Salary_Dashboard/README.md, after:

# Data Jobs Salary Dashboard

_Screen recording of dashboard_

## Introduction

### Problem

Job seekers often face uncertainty when evaluating compensation offers, as salary information can be fragmented, outdated, or inconsistent across sources. Without clear insights into market pay ranges, individuals risk accepting positions with inadequate compensation relative to their skills, experience, and industry standards.

To address this challenge, I developed a job salary dashboard to visualize salary data, enabling job seekers to investigate pay trends for specific roles and make informed decisions about their career opportunities.

### Objective

To investigate salary trends of data jobs considering the job location and schedule (e.g. full-time or part-time).

### Dashboard File

The final dashboard is [Data_Jobs_Salary_Dashboard.xlsx](https://github.com/beverly-m/Data-Analytics-Projects/blob/801aa4eb9dc25eeacad28fc974ed44ad4260f0f6/1_Salary_Dashboard/Data_Jobs_Salary_Dashboard.xlsx)

### Dataset

The dataset contains real-world data job information from 2023. The dataset is available via an [Excel for Data Analytics course by Luke Barousse](https://youtu.be/pCJ15nGFgVg?si=qicwLVMJyS4ycjqH).

It includes detailed information on job titles, salaries, locations, skills and posting platforms.

### Tools & Skills

I used the following Excel skills to build the dashboard

- ✅ Data Validation
- 🔢 Formulas & Functions
- 📈 Charts

## Building the Dashboard

### Filtering by job title, country and schedule

#### ✅ Data Validation: Filtered Lists

Filtered dropdown lists used to select the desired `job title`, `job country` and `job type`

- prevent input errors by restricting values that can be entered to validated inputs
- improve dashboard usability by providing a quick and simplified selection process

_Screen recording of lists_

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 📈 Horizontal Bar Charts - Job Title & Job Type

Horizontal bar charts provide a visual comparison of median salaries across the different job titles and job types. The data is sorted in ascending order and has formatted salary values to improve readability. The selected job title or job type is higlighted with a darker color for easier identification.

_Bar chart image_

#### 📈 Map Chart - Job Country

I used a map chart to plot median salaries globally, with a color-coded design choice that visually differentiates salary levels across regions. This data representation helps users understand geographic salary trends and easily spot high and low paying regions.

_Map chart image_

#### 🔢 Formulas

Median Salary

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
    (jobs[job_title_short] = A2) *
    (jobs[salary_year_avg] <> 0) *
    (jobs[job_country] = job_country) *
    (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
    jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
  )
```

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs by Location

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 🔢 Formula

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=A2) *
     (jobs[salary_year_avg]<>0) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=job_title) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

### Median Salaries of Data Jobs by Schedule

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 📈 Bar Chart

_Justification_

_Bar chart image_

#### 🔢 Formula

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
MEDIAN(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=job_country) *
     (jobs[salary_year_avg]<>0) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=job_title) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(A2,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

### Top Platforms & Posting Volume

> #### Key Insights & Recommendations

#### 🔢 Formula: Top Job Platform

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
COUNTIFS(jobs[job_via], A2,
         jobs[job_title_short], job_title,
         jobs[job_country], job_country,
         jobs[job_schedule_type], job_type)
```

#### 🔢 Formula: Job Count

_Justification_

```Excel formula syntax
COUNT(
  IF(
     (jobs[job_country]=job_country) *
     (jobs[job_title_short]=A2) *
     (ISNUMBER(SEARCH(job_type,jobs[job_schedule_type]))),
     jobs[salary_year_avg]
    )
 )
```

## Conclusion
